feat(library <-> taxonomy check) (#214)
AntaresSimulatorTeam/GemsPy: docs/CHANGELOG.md

- **Model schema: `taxonomy-category`** - introduces optional `taxonomy-category` on models in library YAML files, exposed as `ModelSchema.taxonomy_category`.
- **Taxonomy check** - new `gems.model.taxonomy` module with `load_taxonomy(path)` and `check_library_against_taxonomy(library, taxonomy)`. Validates that every model declaring a `taxonomy-category` references a category that exists in the taxonomy file, and exposes every field group required by that category (variables, parameters, ports, port-field-definitions, constraints, binding-constraints, extra-outputs and properties). Taxonomy classes are (`TaxonomyItem`, `TaxonomyCategory`, `Taxonomy`).
- Math operators `abs` and `round` in the GemsPy expression language.
  - Can be applied to parameters and literals in constraints, bounds, and objective contributions (degree-0 context).
  - Can be applied to any expression in extra-outputs (post-solve evaluation), including decision variables.

>   - Use `.abs()` and `.round()` methods on expression objects, or `abs(expr)` and `round(expr)` in parsed expression strings.

Reviewer: I think that Claude is a bit too verbose on the changelog, I usually ask it to be concise, focusing on functional changes, whitout explaning the impact on the code, as this file should be synthetic. Also this is weird to have the part on abs operator, maybe a rebase / merge from develop is needed ?

Reviewer 2: Done

## [Unreleased]

### Added

- **System components: `properties`** - introduces optional `properties` on components in `system.yml` (a list of `id`/`value` pairs). These are normalized into a `dict[str, str]` on the resolved `Component` (duplicate ids raise a `ValueError`).
- **Model schema: `taxonomy-category`** - introduces optional `taxonomy-category` on models in library YAML files, exposed as `ModelSchema.taxonomy_category`.

> - **Taxonomy check** - new `gems.model.taxonomy` module with `load_taxonomy(path)` and `check_library_against_taxonomy(library, taxonomy)`. Validates that every model declaring a `taxonomy-category` references a category that exists in the taxonomy file, and exposes all port IDs required by that category. Taxonomy classes (`TaxonomyItem`, `TaxonomyCategory`, `Taxonomy`) mirror the structure defined in GEMS-ViewsBuilder.

Reviewer: I don't think the last sentence is relevant as we do not want to mention GEMSViewsBuilder within GemsPy

> - **Taxonomy check** - new `gems.model.taxonomy` module with `load_taxonomy(path)` and `check_library_against_taxonomy(library, taxonomy)`. Validates that every model declaring a `taxonomy-category` references a category that exists in the taxonomy file, and exposes all port IDs required by that category. Taxonomy classes (`TaxonomyItem`, `TaxonomyCategory`, `Taxonomy`) mirror the structure defined in GEMS-ViewsBuilder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Taxonomy check** - new `gems.model.taxonomy` module with `load_taxonomy(path)` and `check_library_against_taxonomy(library, taxonomy)`. Validates that every model declaring a `taxonomy-category` references a category that exists in the taxonomy file, and exposes all variables, parameters, constraints, ports, extra-outputs and properties required by that category. Taxonomy classes (`TaxonomyItem`, `TaxonomyCategory`, `Taxonomy`) mirror the structure defined in GEMS-ViewsBuilder.
```
